---
layout: post
title: "Question 0: Why this website?"
subtitle: "A lot of us worldwide are wondering about the current COVID-19 epidemic, and in particular about what individual and collective measures to put in place in order to limit the propagation of the virus."

# Par défaut image du masque
#background: '/img/bg-index.jpg'

# Ne s'affichera pas si vide
author_text : Arnaud B.
author_simulations :
author_illustration :
author_translation: Clémentine C., Kevin M.

# Pour ne pas afficher la question dans le flux global
hidden: false

# Marque la question comme "traitée" ou "en traitement" si elle est, dans cette ordre, publiée ou non
publish: true
---

A lot of us worldwide are wondering about the current COVID-19 epidemic, and in particular about what  individual and collective measures to put in place in order to limit the propagation of the virus.

This interactive website was created by a team of [researchers](/about)rom different disciplines, all specialists of complex systems modelling, willing to mobilise their skills to answer the questions we have ourselves and that you may have as well about the COVID-19 epidemic. Our project aims to answer these questions through modelling and simulation.

The objectives of CoVprehension are simple:
- Understanding (the propagation of the virus, the actions put in place)
- Objectivising (give a more concrete shape to this event which is bigger than us and can be overwhelming)
- Visualizing (show the mechanisms at play)
- Identifying (the essential principles and actions to put in place)
- Overcoming (fears and anxieties to become actors in the epidemic)

Our operating mode is modelling. To each question asked, we will try to answer with one or several models, in the spirit of the answers already published on the website.

This epidemic is complex. It is bigger than us and that can be overwhelming, but we are (willingly or not) the main actors within this crisis. Therefore, thinking and learning about it, debating it and experimenting on models are a good start to fight it.

Challenge us, ask you questions [here](https://framaforms.org/covprehension-challenge-us-ask-your-questions-1585581105).
